Hello All,


The Delhi Police Wednesday asked the public to be on alert and urged them to exercise caution after two incidents of fake raids were reported within a week
last month. In one case, which occurred in the highly secured area of Chanakypuri, three people were arrested for allegedly posing as officials from the
Enforcement Directorate (ED). In another case reported from Prasad Nagar in North Delhi, the imposters allegedly claimed to be from the Directorate of
Revenue Intelligence (DRI).

In a press note, the Delhi Police urged people to exercise caution and immediately report suspicious activities. Always inform the local police station
if any government or police official visits your doorstep. Demand proper identification from anyone claiming to be a government official, especially if
they ask for money, documents or access to your property. If you suspect someone of impersonation, contact your local police station immediately by
dialling 112. Businesses should conduct thorough background check on employees particularly those with access to sensitive information or valuables.
Your cooperation and vigilance are vital in preventing such incidents the note read.

The first incident occurred on June 20, when a Bentley showroom assistant manager was allegedly abducted and robbed of approximately Rs 30 lakh
on the pretext of a raid by ED officials.

According to a police officer, three people were arrested, including a showroom employee who allegedly leaked confidential information about the cash stored
in a car in the showroom. The accused have been identified as Sunil Kumar Taneja, 46; Suraj, 22; and Sumit Yadav, 25. While Yadav works as a sales executive
at the showroom, Sunil is a driver by profession for a multinational company and Suraj is unemployed but has a prior criminal record with three cases
registered under the Excise Act in Delhi, the officer added. The showroom is located within the premises of the five-star Samrat Hotel in Lutyens’ Delhi,
a highly secure area of the national capital.

According to the police statement, on June 20, the showroom’s assistant manager, Anil Tiwari, was intercepted by two men — Sunil and Suraj — in a car
while he was on his way home on his scooter near the Hungarian Embassy in Chanakyapuri.

Two individuals, one of them dressed in a police uniform, informed Tiwari that he was being arrested in connection with an ED case and physically assaulted him.
They showed him a fake ED letter and insisted he take them to the showroom, claiming they needed to search the premises due to a large sum of cash allegedly
stored there,” the statement said.

The duo then allegedly took him back to the showroom, retrieved the keys to a parked Bentley from him, and fled with the cash stored in the vehicle’s boot.

A senior police officer said Sunil was arrested with the help of technical surveillance from Gurugram on July 5. Subsequently, the other two accused were
 arrested from South Delhi on July 8. Of the looted amount, around Rs 15 lakh has been recovered so far.
 “Their further interrogation is underway,” the officer added.

In a similar incident, four people, including a woman, allegedly cheated a businessman of approximately one kilogram of gold worth around Rs 1 crore by
posing as officials from the DRI in Prasad Nagar in North Delhi.

According to the complaint filed by the victim, he had been in contact with a man from Panipat, Haryana, who had promised good returns for
selling his gold. On June 20, the man allegedly asked the businessman to bring the gold to his office in Karol Bagh, claiming he had a buyer lined up.

“When the businessman reached the office, he was asked to wait for some time. A staff member requested him to show the gold for verification and then asked
 him to wait again,” an officer said.

In the meantime, four people allegedly entered the office and showed him ID cards, claiming to be DRI officials.

“The fake DRI officials then locked the businessman in a washroom after taking the gold, his two mobile phones, and some cash that he had in his pocket. 
They also took the office staff with them and fled the scene,” the officer added.

When the businessman attempted to call the person from Panipat who had requested that he come to the office for the deal, he discovered that the phone was
 switched off. Realising that he had been deceived, he reported the incident to the Prasad Nagar police station and filed an FIR.

The police said they have formed a team to apprehend the accused and are further investigating the matter.


Thanks,
Delhi Police
